docs/migrations/rhel-conversion.md, before:

# Converting RedHat/CentOS VMs from VMware to OpenStack

## Requirements

Before this guide can be followed:

 - The virtual volumes of the VM must have already been imported into Cinder
 - The Linux migration worker VM must be online and have the newly imported cinder volumes attached
 - If the volumes use LVM, ensure the volumes can be seen in `lvdisplay`.
 - The OpenStack Neutron ports that this VM will use have been created.
   Their MAC addresses will be used to configure the VM's interface files.

Though this guide, the example `<device>` is often shown. This is a top-level block device path
found from `fdisk`, such as `/dev/vdb`.


---

## Determine the boot mode (UEFI/BIOS)

If the system is configured to boot with UEFI, `--image-property hw_firmware_type=uefi` must be
set on the boot volume in OpenStack. You can tell this was missed if the VM tries to PXE then fails
and throws an error about not finding its boot device.

Show the boot mode:

```bash
voithos migrate rhel get-boot-mode <device>
```


## (optional) Repair the file-systems

Often a system will benefit from having its volumes repaired. Voithos can run `fsck` and
`xfs-repair` on those volumes while their mounted. Sometimes this is required for the migrated VM
to boot.

```bash
voithos migrate rhel repair-partitions <device>
```


## Add Virtio drivers to initrd

In many releases of RedHat, the VM will boot to `dracut >` when imported into OpenStack unless you
manually inject the Virtio drivers to the initrd files.

```bash
voithos migrate rhel add-virtio-drivers <device>
```


## Remove Installed software

Voithos can remove certain problem packages from the migration target:

- VMware tools shouldn't hurt anything on KVM/OpenStack, but we don't need it
- cloud-init is nice to have in templates. It causes all sorts of problems during migrations

```bash
voithos migrate rhel uninstall vmware-tools <device>
voithos migrate rhel uninstall cloud-init  <device>
```


## Configure Networking

The network interface names in RHEL/CentOS usually change during a migration, and it can be
difficult to predict what the new ones will be. Voithos will inject `udev` rules into the boot
volume to enforce the names, and write interface files accordingly.

- Interface names are commonly `ens1`, `ens2`, `ens3`, and so on.
- Prefix is the CIDR prefix. For `255.255.255.0`, the prefix is `24`.
- Reference: [Consistent network device naming](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/7/html/networking_guide/ch-consistent_network_device_naming)

```bash
# Example of setting a DHCP interface
voithos migrate rhel set-interface <device> --name <interface name> --dhcp --mac "<mac address>"

# Setting a static interface with default route and DNS settings.
# --gateway, --dns, and --domain are all optional
voithos migrate rhel set-interface <device> \
  --name <interface name> \
  --static \
  --mac "<mac address>" \
  --ip-addr "<ip address>" \
  --prefix <prefix> \
  --gateway <ip address> \
  --dns <first dns server> \
  --dns <another dns server> \
  --domain "<dns search domain>"
```


## Unmount/Release VM the volume(s)

The easiest way to unmount everything from the migration worker is to simply shut it down.
This will also help avoid LVM-related problems.

```bash
openstack server stop <migration worker>
```

Remove the volumes from the worker:

```
openstack server remove volume <server> <volume>
```

Commit message:

added cinder uefi example to rhel steps too

docs/migrations/rhel-conversion.md, after:

# Converting RedHat/CentOS VMs from VMware to OpenStack

## Requirements

Before this guide can be followed:

 - The virtual volumes of the VM must have already been imported into Cinder
 - The Linux migration worker VM must be online and have the newly imported cinder volumes attached
 - If the volumes use LVM, ensure the volumes can be seen in `lvdisplay`.
 - The OpenStack Neutron ports that this VM will use have been created.
   Their MAC addresses will be used to configure the VM's interface files.

Though this guide, the example `<device>` is often shown. This is a top-level block device path
found from `fdisk`, such as `/dev/vdb`.


---

## Determine the boot mode (UEFI/BIOS)

If the system is configured to boot with UEFI, `--image-property hw_firmware_type=uefi` must be
set on the boot volume in OpenStack. You can tell this was missed if the VM tries to PXE then fails
and throws an error about not finding its boot device.

Show the boot mode:

```bash
voithos migrate rhel get-boot-mode <device>

# If the return value is "UEFI", you will eventually need to execute:
openstack volume set --image-property hw_firmware_type=uefi <volume>
```


## (optional) Repair the file-systems

Often a system will benefit from having its volumes repaired. Voithos can run `fsck` and
`xfs-repair` on those volumes while their mounted. Sometimes this is required for the migrated VM
to boot.

```bash
voithos migrate rhel repair-partitions <device>
```


## Add Virtio drivers to initrd

In many releases of RedHat, the VM will boot to `dracut >` when imported into OpenStack unless you
manually inject the Virtio drivers to the initrd files.

```bash
voithos migrate rhel add-virtio-drivers <device>
```


## Remove Installed software

Voithos can remove certain problem packages from the migration target:

- VMware tools shouldn't hurt anything on KVM/OpenStack, but we don't need it
- cloud-init is nice to have in templates. It causes all sorts of problems during migrations

```bash
voithos migrate rhel uninstall vmware-tools <device>
voithos migrate rhel uninstall cloud-init  <device>
```


## Configure Networking

The network interface names in RHEL/CentOS usually change during a migration, and it can be
difficult to predict what the new ones will be. Voithos will inject `udev` rules into the boot
volume to enforce the names, and write interface files accordingly.

- Interface names are commonly `ens1`, `ens2`, `ens3`, and so on.
- Prefix is the CIDR prefix. For `255.255.255.0`, the prefix is `24`.
- Reference: [Consistent network device naming](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/7/html/networking_guide/ch-consistent_network_device_naming)

```bash
# Example of setting a DHCP interface
voithos migrate rhel set-interface <device> --name <interface name> --dhcp --mac "<mac address>"

# Setting a static interface with default route and DNS settings.
# --gateway, --dns, and --domain are all optional
voithos migrate rhel set-interface <device> \
  --name <interface name> \
  --static \
  --mac "<mac address>" \
  --ip-addr "<ip address>" \
  --prefix <prefix> \
  --gateway <ip address> \
  --dns <first dns server> \
  --dns <another dns server> \
  --domain "<dns search domain>"
```


## Unmount/Release VM the volume(s)

The easiest way to unmount everything from the migration worker is to simply shut it down.
This will also help avoid LVM-related problems.

```bash
openstack server stop <migration worker>
```

Remove the volumes from the worker:

```
openstack server remove volume <server> <volume>
```
